## 15 – Mission Logs

**LOG ENTRY: MISSION DAY 1**

The _Cochrane_ has landed at the designated landing site, at which point the entirety of the methane drill and refinery, along with several cryogenic storage tanks and a compressor, was unloaded. Portable scanners have revealed which part of the methane hot-spot seems to have the most methane, and a test dig had commenced, which involved the digging of a shaft and placing a spout on it.

The result was not surprising. Approximately one ton of gaseous methane had spurted from the first test dig, which was wasted as the refinery had not yet been set up. The spout was sealed temporarily, with a barometer and vent attached – this way, any pressure in the spout over unsafe levels could be mitigated by venting. The vent could be remotely controlled and monitored from a scanner, which meant the spout really did not pose a huge threat, as the vents can be triggered on a whim.

Tomorrow, the refinery is due to be set up, so the production of fuel-grade liquid methane can commence. As we have not yet set up a sustainable power source, the refinery will be powered initially by the shuttle, and later – when fuel-grade liquid methane can be produced – a portable methane power plant has been sent down as well, and will power the refinery. There are concerns on whether the shuttle&#39;s reactors – and later, the methane power plant – can sufficiently power the refinery, but that is a discussion for later. Right now, I must go and check on the barometer-slash-vent manually; there is always the threat that the readouts from the scanners are not accurate. In the unlikely case it happens, it could threaten the safety of the crew; it is my duty as the highest-ranking officer to protect my own crew at all costs. End log and save.

**LOG ENTRY: MISSION DAY 2**

The methane refinery managed to produce approximately five hundred kilograms of fuel-grade gaseous methane, before it overloaded the shuttle&#39;s power grid, using up about 5,000 kilowatts of power in the process of refining the methane. The upside is that we now have something to power the methane power plant with; the downside, however, was that the shuttle&#39;s power grid had to be repaired first, which cost us about three hours. The reason we needed to repair the power grid first was that the life support systems of the _Cochrane_ depended on it, and could not directly siphon power from the shuttle&#39;s reactors, which were still active.

Consulting the schematics, I have found that the methane power plant works by literally burning the methane with the oxygen in the air, with a 2:1 ratio of oxygen and methane. This reaction produces both carbon dioxide and water. This type of power plant is better than some of the contemporary &#39;fossil fuel&#39; plants, which produce only carbon dioxide. In this day and age, a CO2 splitter can also be attached to the carbon dioxide output, making the methane power plant a clean power source in that regard. The plant can produce about fifty kilowatts of power using one kilogram of fuel-grade gaseous methane; the refinery requires ten kilowatts to produce one kilogram, and the compressor requires thirty kilowatts to compress that kilogram of gaseous methane into liquid methane.

Once the repairs to the shuttle&#39;s power grid completed, the methane power plant was started up, being fed initially by the half-ton of methane that the refinery had produced. The plant was connected to a power brick, which connected to the refinery, whose methane output was connected directly to the plant&#39;s input – with some pipes branching off into a gas container. The refinery is now churning out fuel-grade gaseous methane in full force. Hopefully, by tomorrow, the compressor will be online and the production of fuel-grade liquid methane can start. To prepare for this endeavor, inspections are being carried out on the cryogenic storage tanks – defects at this point could be disastrous. End log and save.

**LOG ENTRY: MISSION DAY 3**

With the compressor online, our mission has all but come to an end. The cryogenic containers have been placed on trolleys, so carrying them won&#39;t be that much of a hassle once they are filled. A total of five containers were brought down, each holding two tons of cryogenic gas in liquid state. They are insulated, which means that they can be carried without wearing gloves, but it is the weight that primarily requires the trolleys in order to load them onto the shuttle. As fuel-grade gaseous methane is produced from the refinery, it is piped into the compressor, which cools and compresses it into fuel-grade liquid methane. This is then piped into the cryogenic tanks, which keeps the liquid methane liquid, as opposed to letting it evaporate. The tanks also have emergency vents, which can be vital in case of a rapid evaporation that pushes the air pressure beyond a safe level. Once a tank is full, the output is temporarily shut down as the tank is carted into the shuttle&#39;s cargo hold, and a new, empty tank is replaced. The whole substitution process takes about ten minutes, after which the output will reopen, allowing liquid methane to enter the new cryogenic storage tank.

There is nothing else to say; it is time to contact _Shuttle Two_ and _Einstein_, and alert them that fueling operations can proceed. In the meantime, Captain Edgun has permitted us to return to our respective ships and take some days off. In his own words, &#39;eating rations for three days straight can&#39;t be good for a kerbal&#39;s sanity&#39;. For once, I must agree with him on this matter. End log and save.
