## 9 – Interesting Reading

```The Relay Star System: A Detailed Report
CAPT James Edgun, Commanding Officer, KFS Scalpel – KD 8061.3
Synopsis
Relay II, the second planet that orbits its star, seems to be the planet that is most suited for kerbal’s first foray into constructing an off-Kerbin presence – one that resides not in the Kerbol system, but in interstellar space.
This planet orbits its primary every 120 rotational periods, which is 33 Kerbin hours long; 9 hours longer than Kerbin’s day. This makes its year 60 per cent shorter than Kerbin’s. Colonists will have to adapt to a 11-hour sleep cycle and a 22-hour work cycle. Planetary mass and atmospheric pressure at elevation zero is 60 per cent of Kerbin. The atmosphere has a slightly oxygen-rich/nitrogen-poor composition, with 31 per cent oxygen, 68 per cent nitrogen, and trace gases. Due to the reduced atmospheric pressure at elevation zero, ‘true’ oxygen concentration at that elevation is actually 18 per cent.
Another point of note is that the planet does not have any indigenous fauna, so there is no risk to the colony in terms of faunal attacks. Certain flowers that consist of the indigenous flora, however, emanate pollen that are incompatible with kerbal physiology. This requires the inclusion of air filters, which will be installed on oxygen collectors for providing the majority of the colony’s breathable oxygen supply, along with medication for allergy relief. In addition, factoring in the risk of possible (but extremely unlikely) hypoxia due to overexertion during an excursion, along with the risk of suffering from an allergic attack of the respiratory system due to the pollen secreted by the flowers, environmental suits must be donned in case of egress. These environmental suits cannot be the ordinary suits used for vacuum or minimal-atmosphere excursions, because the user will still be functioning in a partial-atmosphere environment. Instead, an advanced version of the environmental suit helmet is proposed; see section “Partial-Atmosphere Excursion Helmet” for more information.
Partial-Atmosphere Excursion Helmet: Functions
- Ability to function in pressures >10 kilopascals
- Possesses filtered O₂ intakes and CO₂ vents
- Possesses 1 hour reserve H₂O and O₂
- Ability to function indefinitely in oxygenated atmospheres
Partial-Atmosphere Excursion Helmet: Specifications
The Partial-Atmosphere Excursion Helmet is not unlike the standard Helmet on Kerbin Fleet environmental suits. However, the similarities end there. Apart from standard-issue gloves and boots, the Helmet is the only part of the environmental suits worn on the user, because the environmental suit is designed to protect the user against pressures ranging from 10 kilopascals to null-pressure. The Helmet, however, will be used in environments with pressures ranging from 10 kilopascals to a standard Kerbin atmosphere, so the use of a complete environmental suit is redundant. Gloves and boots, however, are used to protect the extremities, because exposure of the body to any pressure lower than Kerbin standard still poses a danger to the user; it can cause local hypoxia, and eventually gangrene, which will ultimately require surgical removal of the affected limb.
The Helmet possesses filtered O₂ intakes and CO₂ vents, and an hour’s worth of reserve H₂O and O₂. It should be able to sustain the user sufficiently, given sufficient water for consumption and a sufficiently oxygenated atmosphere.
Analysis of the Relay Star System
- Relay star: Spectral class K3III red dwarf. Previously (and erroneously) classified as class R3III dwarf.
- Relay I: unsuitable for colonization. Orbit is slightly eccentric, and closest approach to primary brings it outside the circumstellar habitable zone (CHZ). Uncharted; only observed.
- Relay II: colonization target. Orbit is near-circular, and both apsides reside between the habitable zone’s inner and outer bounds. Planetary information described in synopsis.
- Relay III: gas giant; ‘surface’ gravity and atmospheric pressure lower than that of Jool. Composition is unknown, as is its orange un-Jool-like tint. Uncharted; only observed.
- Relay IV: gas giant; possesses an extremely cold (min. 49 kelvins) atmosphere. Has a cyan coloration to it; very much unlike Jool’s coloration. Uncharted; only observed.
- Relay V: gas giant; possesses an equally cold (min. 55 kelvins) atmosphere, as well as a dark blue hue. Again, very dissimilar to the hue Jool sports. Uncharted; only observed.
Unsuitable Plans for Colonization
- Colonization of Relay I: too risky. As mentioned in section ‘Analysis of the Relay Star System’, the environment of Relay I is extremely unforgiving, bordering on uninhabitable. Even if a colony were to be established on this planet, periodic temperature spikes, which occur as the planet approaches the inner CHZ boundary and its periapsis, could pose an extreme danger to the colonists.
- Construction of stations orbiting the gas giants: extremely unfeasible. While uncharted, it has been postulated that a highly energetic belt of radiation is present that extends from the periapsis of Relay III outward, towards the apoapsis of Relay V. The radiation belt does not extend inward sufficiently to harm Relay II, but colonists will still receive an amount of radiation slightly higher than Kerbin sea level. Orbital stations around these gas giants, however, will be subject to over ten Sieverts of radiation per year – easily lethal by the 200-day mark. There is also the problem of tidal forces, if moons are discovered orbiting these gas giants.
- Colonization of the gas giants’ moons: highly unlikely. Presence of satellites orbiting the gas giants is skeptical at worst, unconfirmed at best. Even if satellites do exist, there is a very slim chance that they possess an oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere with even partial pressure (greater than or equal to 10 kilopascals). If such moons are present, they would also be bombarded with constant radiation – see above – not to mention causing tidal forces.
Jurisdiction
As with any off-Kerbin colony (such as the growing number of colonies on Mun and Minmus), the Relay II colony should fall under the jurisdiction of the Federation of Kerbin States. However, there are proponents for allowing the colony to retain partial control; the Relay system and its space are under the jurisdiction of the Federation, but the Relay II colony, and any other colonies that may spawn from the Relay II colony, have autonomous jurisdiction.
The advantage of granting autonomous jurisdiction of the colony to the colonists is twofold. Consider this: The distance between Kerbin and Relay is 10 light-years. Even factoring in theoretical third-generation designs, which can traverse this distance in two years, military aid is distant. Allowing the colony to build up a small fleet, consisting of lightly-armed realspace ships, will repel an invasion force long enough for the rest of the Fleet to come to their rescue. Restricting the types of armaments available to these ships, as well as restricting the use of translation drive, has their own advantages. For instance, should the colony attempt to gain independence from the Federation, the liberation effort has no real meaning to it, because the colonists lack ships and armaments, both of which are important in any liberation movement.
Timeline
- 2880 CE: KFS Scorpion, 2nd Gen design transport, is projected to depart for Relay.
- 2885 CE: KFS Scorpion projected to arrive at Relay.
- 2887 CE: Projected completion date of Relay II colony.
- 2890 CE: KFS Scalpel, 1st Gen design science vessel, is projected to depart for Kerbin.
- 2900 CE: KFS Scalpel projected to arrive at Kerbin.
Afterword
By CDR Christopher Enman, Executive Officer, KFS Scalpel
The colonization of the Relay system is just the first step in kerbal’s expansion to the stars. It has been made clear in preceding reports that the Relay star itself is not radiobright; rather, it is an artificially-constructed station in orbit of Relay that is acting as a radio beacon. We have discovered two such objects in orbit of Relay; the first, Relay Alpha, is the aforementioned ‘radio beacon’ and academic institute. The station’s database is extremely thorough, ranging from the very basic to the absolute pinnacle of knowledge, and everything in between. The other, Relay Beta, seems to be an ancient artifact, left adrift by whoever created them. It sports the characteristics of a shipyard, and it is our goal to rechristen Relay Beta as the Relay Extrasolar Shipyards. In the meantime, the Relay II Expedition will send a team down to the planet’s surface, for a short-term colonization expedition. The expedition will possess basic rations and an inflatable habitat module, to see if a colony that resides on the surface of Relay II is viable.
[Fin.]
